so this i think was was the context
right so i think it came back to this
um donation that we got from hiromobific
which is
why do you do it why get up why keep
fighting do you believe you're fighting
for something
for more than your survival can you tell
me what it is do you even know is it
freedom or truth
perhaps peace illusions or temporary
constructs
okay so here's the thing so then i asked
you guys the question
why does rain fall down and then
everyone was like
gravity and then i asked the question
why does fire go
up and then everyone was like we don't
know
anti-gravity science physics
you know it just does you know
density someone said i don't know
so i was in india and and i was
basically asking my teachers
some of these questions and it's like
why do
why does this happen to us why do we do
this like why are human beings like
fundamentally like why are we
not content right why do we come up with
these magic pills
for the problems that we have like
fundamentally like why are we not
content like why can't we just be happy
like if you look at a rock
that's outside the rock is just happy is
it is this just a consequence of
consciousness
and so what my teacher said and this is
the funny thing about you know
meditation teachers and ashrams is like
some of them really don't know science
but they like kind of talk like they
know science so then he was like
he has to be why does where does all
water end up and where does all fire
end up someone so so eventually it was
sort of like all water winds up in the
ocean and the scientist in me was like
not really because like you know
the like it also ends up in the clouds
like the whole point is that it's a
cycle and it's like
you get evaporation then you get clouds
and you get rainfall rainfall ends up in
rivers and rivers
ends up in the ocean then he's like
where does all fire end up
it's like i don't know it just like kind
of burns right like it like
there's combustion and then you like
produce like carbon dioxide and carbon
monoxide and
things like that and he was like
it ends up in the sun and i was like so
i was like okay
whatever and so then his point was this
that all fire points towards the sun
and all all water goes towards the ocean
i was like sure i mean i guess from sort
of like a you know like
i mean i guess sort of in a weird way
it's like kind of true because fire goes
up and the sun is generally up there so
i'm with you kind of
and so i mean i think the dude was
trying to make a point so i was like let
that slide okay so this is the problem
is that if you're a skeptic
in an ashram sometimes you get into
these sorts of situations where
if you contest him on those points you
never get to the end of the story
just like you guys are gonna never get
to the end of the story and so what what
he was saying
what came next and i was glad i kind of
held my piece because he was saying that
all things strive for their source
and sure his analogies weren't great and
so i think like you know when people ask
me like why do we do this like why
bother getting better and the one thing
that i
i will say is that if you look at human
beings we definitely have a particular
gravity
to us right i don't mean like gravitas i
mean like
there are things that pull us in a
direction
like we get pulled like if we're
discontent
we get pulled towards peace
you know we heard today about how unit
gets pulled towards like
quieting those calm feelings so why do
we do it because that's the direction
that we're pulled
i could call this thing dharma or duty
i could say that it's my duty to help
people but like
that too is like it's not dude it's just
a word that we wrap around
like being pulled and so what i want you
guys to really stop and think about is
like
what is pulling you in a particular
direction
and earlier we had you know we had a
someone
kind of offer a pretty big donation and
we're grateful for that he was also
talking about how they
um you know how they're struggling and
they're treading water and i want what i
want
all of y'all to realize if you guys are
trying water or you yearn
for something or you want something is
like that is actually really really
important
you have this gravitational pull to
become happy and peaceful and content
and so it's not so much about why i mean
like i could offer whatever theories i
can that'll be just as pseudo-scientific
as
all fires seeks to return home to the
sun
the point of the matter is that all fire
points up and the point of the matter is
that there is a gravitational pull
that is pulling you towards like
becoming content
and happy and wanting to change your
life
and so this is where i'd say use that
gravitational potential energy
don't get caught up in your mind to like
think like oh this is the particular
thing
that i need what you should focus on is
the direction
not like the precise point right so you
may think that a particular thing will
make you happy
but it's not that thing that's going to
make you happy and this is what people
discover
is they get things and things and things
this is what some people call
the hedonistic treadmill if you seek one
pleasure then you seek another pleasure
and another pleasure and another
pleasure i see this a lot with my
clients who work at investment banks
where they're like okay once i make vp
then i'll be happy and then they wind up
as vps and they're like once i make
junior partner i'll be happy and then
they're not happy you're director in
banks and then once i become a managing
director
then i'll be happy and then like what
these people don't realize is that
there's like one person from each of
these positions who comes to my office
every week
including the managing directors they're
at the top of the food chain
and they look around at their life and
they've got two divorces behind them
and they're like not happy
and so like there is no particular thing
that if you get that thing it's gonna
make you happy
there's certainly a lot of happiness to
be found
through achievement through
relationships through gaming even
but at the end of the day what you guys
really need to move towards is like just
move in the direction that you want to
go
and don't get particularly caught up
in in like a particular magical pill or
solution
if i do this then my entire life will
change
and i've seen this too it's in like
there's certainly progress to be made
but i see it in all kinds of clients and
all kinds of people because at the end
of the day if you listen to buddha
buddha you know he says that happiness
comes from within and that's not like i
know it's become like a new age yoga
calendar like
instagram kind of like thing that people
like posting like uh
happiness comes from within men so
that's why you should buy these
120 lululemon pants because happiness
comes from within
yeah subscribe like follow us
on twitter if you want happiness from
within
use more social media bro yeah give us
donations man
come to my retreat bro order my merch
bro because happiness comes from within
we have this really great t-shirt that
says happiness comes from within
yeah and so what we recommend people do
is they chop it up into little pieces
with scissors and make it into a stew
and then eat it because then happiness
is on the inside
right like like we say that so much but
we don't
recognize what it means what it
actually means is that like it is your
the way that you view the world
that matters the most and so if you're
getting caught up like move in the
direction that you need to go in
and don't get particularly attached to
some
thing that is in that direction so if
i'm hungry like i need to eat
something not eat precisely the food
that i'm craving
and so you guys should do that for
yourselves as well in terms of taking
care of yourself
if you if you're if there's if there's a
part of you that wakes up in the morning
and is like i need to be in more shape
than i
am i want to look better and then what
happens is you attach yourself to a
particular fantasy
i want to look like that don't follow
the fantasy
move in the direction so it's not about
having like
you know being one of these these
generic
dudes who's on the bachelor it's like
about
being a little bit better than you were
the day before
and so exercise a little bit eat a
little bit healthier eat a piece of
fruit
drink water instead of soda like take
one little thing
and do that thing move in the direction
that you're going but don't get caught
up in a particular
goal i'm only going to go to college if
i can go to harvard and nothing else is
is worth it right i'm only gonna go to
the gym like i'm gonna start going to
the gym once i'm in shape so i don't
embarrass myself it's like
i know exactly how those people feel
because that's how i feel i have those
thoughts
but it's like completely missing the
point just like think about that thought
process for a second
you know it's like i'm gonna go to the
gym once i'm in shape look what
you know like this is the only thing
that's going to work for me like you
attach yourselves to this particular
hope
and you go towards it but just get help
move in the direction that your
gravitation is pulling you
head towards the source do something
anything in the right direction
and that is how you wind up in the right
place
you don't start from you know the
beginning
and see a particular point because you
don't know what's going to work from you
at the very beginning of the journey
this is something that is called the
planning fallacy which is that we make
plans at the beginning which is when we
have the least information
and therefore our plans are actually
objectively the worst plans that they'll
ever be
is at the very beginning but this is
what we do we attach ourselves to a goal
and we say oh this is what i need to be
happy but what do you know like you're
not like
you haven't started that journey move in
the right direction
take one step forward and let go of
what's going to happen
i was psyched today because i had a
great meditation for yuna i was like
this is going to be perfect this is what
i studied meditation for
because she has this problem and i have
the perfect meditation for her
and then life taught me the same lesson
over and over and over again because
this is what i've noticed happens to me
the more perfect of an answer i have i
even said her i said i have an answer
for you
you guys notice that i don't usually say
that
so i've noticed that when i feel like
i've just noticed this weird pattern in
my own life that when i think i know
something and i'm like
ah now the wisdom of dr k will transform
you
life comes and just [ __ ] slaps me
it's like uh dr k get back in your place
listen to what they're saying because
they don't seem to be ready for it yet
and it's like okay fine
i'll take it let me just follow her
where she wants to go and the perfect
meditation is for another day
you guys notice that like how bizarre it
is that i don't usually say that
usually i'm struggling to find something
and today i have the perfect one
and jabaided is absolutely right
and so we learn these lessons like i get
taught these lessons continuously and
you guys should take away this lesson
too
which is that if you're attached to a
particular thing that is the answer to
all of your problems
chances are it's not the answer to all
your problems the answer to all of your
problems is to take
second best get the silver medal every
single time or even the bronze like
who's complaining just go for it
right okay so that was the story